Let's talk briefly about an instance where you do not need to add
UTM campaign parameters to your campaign URLs in order to get the best possible tracking.
If you're running Google Adswords campaigns for paid search,
the Google Display Network, or YouTube,
you can leverage a function called auto tagging.
Auto tagging is turned on by default in Google AdWords.
So, unless you've turned this off at some point,
it's very likely you don't need to make
any configuration changes in order to use this functionality.
Let's take a quick look in the AdWords interface,
so you can see where that setting is.
So, if I click on the account settings tab,
in the top navigation,
I'll be taken to the overall account settings for this AdWords account.
You'll see here an auto tagging setting.
I can see that it's showing yes,
which means that auto tagging is turned on.
If I expand this box,
I can see this checkbox tagged the URL that people click through for my ad.
When that check box is selected,
it means that auto tagging is turned on.
Again, this will be the default setting in Google AdWords,
so very likely you will not need to update this configuration,
but this is where you will confirm that setting.
So, if auto tagging is turned on,
your campaigns will automatically be appended with a parameter called gclid,
this is the Google click ID.
This essentially takes the place of UTM tagging for your AdWords campaigns,
and it encodes a lot of rich information about your AdWords initiatives,
campaign ad groups, keywords,
as well as additional information such as placements and
other targeting options you may have in place for your Google display network campaigns.
You will also want to link your AdWords account to your Google Analytics Property.
This will allow Google Analytics to automatically
ingest those rich values from the gclid.
Again, there's no need to tag your AdWords URLs with UTM parameters,
the gclid takes care of that.
You'll be able to see that rich AdWords campaign data in Google Analytics.
You'll also be able to share
your Google Analytics conversion goals with your Google AdWords account.
Once the integration is complete and
your campaigns are coming in with the auto tagging in place,
let's just take a quick look.
We're not going to go into detail on campaign performance reports right now,
but I do want to show you really quickly in the interface where you will see
that Google AdWords data populated by the gclid fed parameter.
Within the Google Analytics interface,
under the acquisitions tab in the left nav,
you will see there is a Google ad specific drop-down section.
Here you can see reporting for a number of different AdWords dimensions,
including at the account level if you have
multiple accounts linked, campaigns, site links,
bid adjustments, keywords, search queries, day parting,
final URLs, display targeting settings,
video campaigns, and chopping campaigns if you're running them.
In addition, your auto tagged Google AdWords traffic
will also come in and populate your all traffic reports.
So for example, in source medium,
you will see that Google ads traffic tagged with
the gclid is going to get captured within
Google Analytics with the source medium pair Google CPC, line item four.
Just to be clear,
the source will be Google,
the medium will be CPC.
The traffic was captured automatically in Google Analytics
as paid search traffic with the source Google,
medium CPC, and will be distinguished automatically from Google organic traffic.
Also, if we jump up to the channels report,
we'll see that the classification rules for channels are also going to automatically
classify the Google CPC traffic as paid search traffic.
So, this is a case where you don't need to use UTM parameters in order to capture
the data that you need to give you visibility into your marketing campaigns.